
<<<

[[version]]
Version
-------

[[general]]
General
~~~~~~~

The Version contract is a singleton contract for all funds deployed
under a specific Melon protocol version. All Factory contracts are
exclusive to the Version contract and cannot be changed once set.

 

[[version.sol]]
Version.sol
~~~~~~~~~~~

[[description]]
Description
+++++++++++

The Version contract inherits from FundFactory and is the single,
exclusive FundFactory contract for a specific Melon Protocol version.
The Version contract is the contract creator for all funds of the
specific Melon Protocol version.

[[inherits-from]]
Inherits from
+++++++++++++

FundFactory, DSAuth, VersionInterface (link)

 

[[on-construction]]
On Construction
+++++++++++++++

The following contract addresses are provided as parameters:

`address _accountingFactory` - The address of the AccountingFactory
contract. `address _feeManagerFactory` - The address of the
FeeManagerFactory contract. `address _participationFactory` - The
address of the ParticipationFactory contract. `address _sharesFactory` -
The address of the SharesFactory contract. `address _tradingFactory` -
The address of the TradingFactory contract. `address _vaultFactory` -
The address of the VaultFactory contract.
`address _policyManagerFactory` - The address of the
PolicyManagerFactory contract. `address _registry` - The address of the
Registry contract. `address _postDeployOwner` - The address of the
contract owner.

These address parameters set the corresponding state variables as
defined in the inherited definition of `FundFactory`. The constructor
then directly sets the `registry` state variable with the address of the
registry contract and calls the `setOwner()` function passing the
address of the current contract.

The Version contract assumes the Governance contract is the deployer.

 

[[structs]]
Structs
+++++++

None.

 

[[enums]]
Enums
+++++

None.

 

[[modifiers]]
Modifiers
+++++++++

None.

 

[[events]]
Events
++++++

None.

 

[[public-state-variables]]
Public State Variables
++++++++++++++++++++++

None.

 

[[public-functions]]
Public Functions
++++++++++++++++

`function shutDownFund(address _hub) external`

This external function first requires that `msg.sender` is the manager
for the specified `_hub`. The function then calls the target fund’s
`shutDownFund()` function.
